---
title: "Lifelong Fitness - the journey begins now!"
description: ""
pubDate: 2024-01-08
author: "Adam McLaughlin"
tags: ["nutrition", "performance"]
---
Every calendar year begins with tons of celebration, huge displays of fireworks, pounds of confetti, and lists upon lists of New Year’s resolutions.  These resolutions come in all shapes and sizes, but some of them that always seem to be at the top of everyone's list are: "lose weight", "get in shape", "get stronger", or "get your beach body ready for the first day of summer".  Isn't it great that everyone strives to "get in shape"?  The answer is ABSOLUTELY!  But why wait until January 1st to strive for a better you. If you are truly committed to bettering yourself physically, then stop waiting and begin this lifelong journey today!  

We are entering the holiday season, the weather is getting chillier, the days are getting shorter, and the leaves have begun to fall.  But with only a few months left in the year, do you feel like you have reached your fitness goals that you set last January?  Unfortunately, when it comes to fitness, the answer for most people is "no".  

That brings us to our next question of "what is fitness?”. Fitness is more than a number on a scale, the size of your bicep or the amount of weight you can squat. Don't get me wrong, those are all great benchmarks, but they aren't a true measure of fitness.  Fitness is a lifelong journey that is reached on a daily basis.  

The President’s Council on Fitness, Sports & Nutrition says that "more than 80% of adults do not meet the guidelines for both aerobic and muscle strengthening activities, and more than 80% of adolescents do not do enough aerobic physical activity to meet the guidelines for youth".  The term physical activity isn't as daunting as it may seem either.  Simply taking the dog for a walk or playing catch in the backyard can be considered physical activity.  When it's look at that way, lifelong health and fitness doesn't seem too challenging anymore. Maybe it could even spark your interest on what your personal possibilities are.  

The time to pursue lifelong fitness doesn’t start tomorrow, or January 1st, it begins today! The challenge that is being put in front of you may seem daunting, but if you take this journey one day at a time and commit yourself to the process, you will never look back.  Don't be another resolution maker whose gets bored with the superficial short term goals of fitness. Find a love for being healthy, being fit and prolonging yours and your loved ones lives through physical activity today!  

Today is the first day of the rest of your life.  
