---
title: "5 Daily changes to immediately improve your health"
description: ""
pubDate: 2024-01-12
author: "Adam McLaughlin"
tags: ["nutrition", "performance"]
---
On a daily basis, how would you rate your health?  Would you give yourself a good grade? If the answer is no, don’t fret, these tips can help.  If the answer is yes, keep doing what you are doing and then take some extra steps to improve your life even more!  

Here are 5 quick fixes to help you live a healthier lifestyle!  

1. Moving at work: Our desk jobs restrict us from so much movement and activity. During work, take a longer walk to a bathroom that is further away or stand up and move around while you are on the phone. It is amazing what standing up and stretching out will do for your energy to get you through your 8-hour shift.  

2. Take the stairs: Elevators and escalators are great, but have stopped people from so much easy exercise. Taking the staircase doesn’t take much more time than an elevator, especially when it is stopping at 6 different floors. You can find a little bit of extra time in your day-to-day routine where you can breathe a little heavier and get your blood flowing a little quicker.  

3. Drink more water: Water isn’t just an ingredient on the label of your juice or soda. Water is a vital component to human function. The human body is roughly 65% water. So, drink more water!  

4. Take the dog for a walk: While you may have a beautiful yard in which your dog loves to run circles and bounce around like a maniac, your dog would love so much more to go for a walk with you. Instead of opening up the back door and sitting right back down on the couch, throw your shoes on and take the dog for a 5-10 minute walk. Fido will thank you for it!  

5. Park in the back of the parking lot: Whether it is the grocery store, the mall or your child’s athletic practices, take an extra minute and walk a little further. You would be amazed how quickly the steps add up! Most smart phones today have the ability to track how many steps you take throughout the day; utilize this and see how big of a difference parking in the back of the lot makes!  

Being healthy and striving for a “better YOU” isn’t as hard as you would think.  Sometimes it just takes a little push to get a big ball rolling!  
